Seamless
========

Seamless is a simple DVD player for GNU/Linux systems.

Seamless was written by Martin Soto <soto@freedesktop.org> and can be
freely copied and distributed under the terms of the GNU General
Public License. See the file COPYING in this directory for more
details.

Seamless in based on the great GStreamer media framework
(http://gstreamer.freedesktop.org/).


Compiling from the GNU Arch repository
--------------------------------------

Seamless is alpha software and still depends on the bleeding edge of
the GStreamer technology. Unfortunately, compiling it right now is not
the easiest of all tasks. The following compile instructions are
intended for experts only. If you don't have a clue what they mean,
Seamless isn't probably for you at this time (although I hope things
will get easier soon).

You need to have the following packages installed:

- Glib (http://www.gtk.org/) version 2.0 or newer.

- GStreamer, gst-plugins and gst-python from
http://gstreamer.freedesktop.org/. Currently you need the CVS
development versions of them all. Released versions won't work.

- Python (http://www.python.org/) version 2.3 or newer. Make sure the
corresponding C development files (libraries, headers) are also
installed.

- PyGTK (http://www.pygtk.org/) version 2.4 or newer. The C
development files are also necessary.

- libdvdread
(http://www.dtek.chalmers.se/groups/dvd/downloads.shtml). I'm using
version 0.9.4.

- Pyrex (http://nz.cosc.canterbury.ac.nz/~greg/python/Pyrex/). I'm
using version 0.9.3.

- The GNU autotools: Autoconf (http://www.gnu.org/software/autoconf/),
version 2.59 or later, Automake (http://www.gnu.org/software/automake)
version 1.7, and libtool (http://www.gnu.org/software/libtool/)
version 1.5.6 or later.

Except for the GStreamer related packages, which currently must be the
development versions and have to be downloaded and compiled manually,
all other packages should be available from your favorite GNU/Linux
distribution (I'm using Debian unstable here.)

To actually compile, go through the following steps:

1. Compile GStreamer (module gstreamer) from CVS (go to
http://gstreamer.freedesktop.org/dev/ for details). You can either
install it, or use it directly from the compile directory if you used
the --enable-plugin-builddir option to the configure script.

2. Compile gst-plugins just like you did for GStreamer.

3. Compile gst-python, ditto.

4. Put the pkgconfig directory(ies) for gstreamer and gst-plugins in
your PKG_CONFIG_PATH variable.

5. Move to the Seamless main directory and type

  ./autogen.sh
  make

If everything went OK, you should be ready to run after this step.


Running Seamless
----------------

Getting Seamless to work may require some understanding of the
GStreamer technology. The following notes presuppose you are somewhat
familiar with GStreamer and how it works.

To start the program, run the src/seamless.py script in the source
tree. The GStreamer pipeline is still sort of hard coded, but you can
customize it somewhat using the command line options (--help to get a
list). For example

  src/seamless.py --video-sink='ffcolorspace ! videoscale ! ximagesink'

uses the ximagesink video sink instead of the default xvimagesink,

  src/seamless.py --audio-sink=osssink

plays sound using the OSS sound driver (instead of the default ALSA)
and

  src/seamless.py --audio-sink='ac3iec958 ! alsaspdifsink' --audio-decode=hard

selects the internal alsaspdifsink element, that is able to play to an
external AC3 decoder (and for this reason does not require an internal
AC3 decoder).

Once playing usage is pretty simple so far:

  - Use the arrow keys to move inside menus and the "Return" key to
    confirm.

  - When playing a film "Esc" takes you to the menu ("menu" key in a
    normal remote)

  - PageUp and PageDown jump chapters back and forth.

  - Shift + RightArrow and Shift + LeftArrow jump 10 seconds forward and
backward, respectively.

  - Clicking anywhere on the main window switches between normal and
    full screen mode.

  - Closing the window terminates the program.


-- Martin Soto <soto@freedesktop.org>, 2004/11/29
